Bitforms Gallery Visit
Naomi Marshall

I enjoyed my time at Bitforms Gallery quite a bit, I’ve been wondering what could be done with my emerging media technology degree outside of the obvious. I actually got to talk to someone that works there and learned quite a bit. They gave me the names of other galleries similar Bitforms and they gave me the names of some artist who have showcased at Bitforms or make works similar to the ones shown at Bitforms. At the gallery, I saw three different works by the artist Daniel Rozin. One was called Sunset Mirror. When walked in front of, it shows your silhouette in the color of a Sunset. I really like this one because one of my favorite things to look at are sunsets. I also like the way it wouldn’t show your actual reflection, but just your silhouette because I don’t really like looking at myself in mirrors, but seeing my silhouette is pretty cool. I’m guessing it worked by mirroring your silhouette and simulating a sunset behind or around it. It would also change the distance of the sun in the mirror based on how close or far you are from the mirror, so I’m guessing it took the user’s distance into account and would change it’s look based on that. I’m wondering if it has a sensor to measure distance and a sensor or camera to recreate your image or if it’s all in one sensor or device. Another work was called Fabric Mirror. I’m guessing this one works by tracking where you are or where your body is in relation to the installation. I’m also guessing that within the installation there are probably motors that make the fabric move based on where you are in front of it. The last work is Cracked Mud. I liked this one a lot because it reminded me of walking through a puddle. Based on where you were in relation to the installation, when you walked by it, it made a ripple effect from your point to the end of it’s platform. It also had its own patterns where it would ripple out from the middle. The cracking mud piece has given me an idea for a possible future project. Last semester I made a costume arm out of EVA foam, a glove and sensors. I think it would be cool to make a similar piece with moving parts. For example, if someone got close enough to the costume, spikes would come up from the gaps in the costume or if someone got close enough, the costume would vibrate or twitch. I’m unsure how exactly I would do this, but I’m guessing I would either use a motor that could make the costume pieces vibrate or I would use a motor or some sort of elevating platform to hoist the spikes out. If I could make it vary in how much it shakes or how often the spikes come out rather then having it work on a routine, it could possibly serve as a good visualization of how in a lot of instances, I really dislike being touched and in other instances I’m completely fine with it.
